# datascience-bootcamp-projects-final
Project 16: TripleTen's Data Science Bootcamp: Final Project <br>
**Project Structure:** Create work plan, save data to local machine, evaluate, preprocess, and visualize data, come up with clarifying questions, build model, write final report. <br>
**Task:** Forecast client churn so that the marketing department can offer client promotional codes and offers to retain client. <br>
**Skills Demonstrated:** Create own project layout, questions, and tasks to solve business challenge. Included some basic CSS and HTML for styling. Created categories of clients based on 'service type' such as phone only clients, internet only clients, and clients enrolled in both services to use for this task and other future business tasks. Merged datasets into one dataset for analyzing. Explored churn based on service type, client demographics, payment methods, sign-up dates, plan type (month-to-month vs. long-term), analyzed how additional services like tech support affected churn, looked at internet service type and churn rates and determined this category needs to be further evaluated and additional services offered fiber optic internet, looked at churn rates based on client charges, and finally looked at some seasonality in client churn patterns. <br>
Built and trained several models for predicting churn including, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, and Gradient Boosting. Noted class imbalances and adjusted class weights, upsampled and downsampled minority and majority classes, hypertuned Random Forest and Gradient Boosting models, compared evaluation metrics. Got a final ROC AUC score of 0.87 for the Gradient Boosting model. Reviewed feature importance to determine which features are most important in detecting churn. Did some hypothesis testing with these features for stronger data-backed evidence. <br>
Created final solution report.
